The paper considers a linear residual network architecture, composed of multiple residual blocks, and studies the maximal eigenvalue of the corresponding Hessian matrix. The main result is that for whitened data and under certain balancedness assumptions, this maximum eigenvalue is significantly reduced when each residual block is composed of more than one layer. This is used to argue why deep residual networks (which usually have more than one layer per block) perform well. A couple of experiments on synthetic data are presented, demonstrating that more than one layer allows for larger step sizes and faster convergence.

On the positive side, the paper is reasonably well-written and clear, deals with a timely topic, and the math appears to be correct. On the negative side, the evidence provided to support the main claim did not feel very strong. The main technical result is a formula for the maximal eigenvalue (based on a technical but straightforward calculation), which is smaller for n>1 layers as opposed to n=1. This calculation is made under several assumptions, which do not necessarily apply to practical resnets (linearized networks; perfectly whitened data; perfect balancedness; small singular values of the W matrices). Of course, it is fine to make assumptions in order to make the analysis tractable. However, I was missing an intuition for *why* this different behavior for n>1 occurs, and as a result why we might expect this behavior to hold more generally than in the specific setup formally analyzed here (e.g. nonlinear networks, stochastic data; standard initializations…). In addition, I would have liked to see more evidence (theoretical or empirical) that the formula correctly captures the actual behavior of resnets for other values of n and number of residual blocks. Another potential weakness is that the focus of the research community (at least as far as I can surmise) has shifted in recent years from resnets to other architectures such as transformers, which may affect the appeal of the paper to the JMLR audience. 